---
layout: post
title: You?
---

#### Written on 7 May 2013

#### Not sure why I ended up with this kind of sudden silent outburst in my mind. It's definitely not me, somebody else is sitting in my brain and forcing me into these thoughts and scribbles. Perhaps, Johnnie Walker!

<hr></hr>

Adrenaline of life consists of two things. They are seeking and feeling. Keep saying these 2 words a zillion times. Now let us calculate how many times the former word followed the latter and the latter followed its former. You end up getting almost an equal number of times they followed each other; like in a set of curved lines placed on a circle, which curve comes first? That's pretty much about life. You seek for something and in the process of attaining, you end up feeling. Your new feeling leaves you with a new thing to seek for. And you go on and on and on!

The question is that if there is a stop. A significant stop that shows you the labyrinth of life in a plain and simple two dimensional viewpoint! The problem is that there is certainly a stop but it has to be initiated by the seeker. Most of us do not. At least I do not. We think there is no time. We have set our benchmarks. We need to run, in fact, run almost unstoppable. Until the running consumes us to breathlessness, we do not realize we need a stop. When we stop, what if we found that all the long way that we had been running so far was wrong?

This reminds me of a cartoon on **Vedanta**. There is a hilly-curvy path on which a man has been walking from quite a distance. The cartoon shows the man currently who just crossed a landmark where the signpost says "the last Guru before Nirvana', who he just met and walked forth. And now he is nearing another landmark where the signpost reads, "Wrong way. Go back!"

What on earth could it mean?
- The eminent invincible Guru was wrong?
- Or our understanding of that Guru's direction was wrong?
- Or our ambition of reaching Nirvana was wrong?

> What exactly went wrong?

Osho, the principal authority among contemporaries on this kind of egresses, will take you for a ride if you ask him what went wrong. He twists and turns your malleable mind, repeats sentences in his own chaotic patterns. By the time you came to his 5th minute sppech, you already lost track of what he aactually meant in the first 4 minutes.

The Buddha, the one who needs no introduction, will smile and close his eyes if you ask him what went wrong. It could mean as cruel as, "Do what's necessary!" or as frustratingly simple as, "I would rather preserve my time for some meaningful things."

Krishna, someone full of divine lineament utterly incomprehensible for the man, shows you, to find the answer, a most undivided simplest path that you will never be able to accept. His paths cannot be simpler and we are not used to such simplicity ever since we started growing up. We are born simple, but we are forced to be complicated to be eligible to live in this society.

Socrates, the supreme teacher who does not know how to teach, will ask you so many more questions in the attempt of enabling you to find the answer all by yourself, because all he knows is to make people think.
All of them indicate that they cannot help you. With same rigor and sternness, ask your father what went wrong; he will use a language that's heavily coated with the prejudices of his experiences. He can surely lead you somewhere but not exactly where you want to go.

Sounds patriarchal? Mothers and women are not taken here because they are pretty much like the Buddha, although not in its complete sense. Women would never entertain you if you ask them these futile questions; they are at the continuous service of this reality world where nothing matters except for a generative product. They do not waste time on these philosophizing conversations. We are not touching the exceptions though!

> Then who helps?

***They*** say, you went on asking so many others, but why have you not ever remembered one person more real than all of them? It is that one person who can show you the life not in the usual baffling kaleidoscopic view, but resolved into a very extraordinarily straightforward one dimensional way. From a legion of dimensions, we will regress to the original single point of view to deal with anything in life. This one person **is theoretically capable of** interpreting all-things-life using that single point of view. A person with one-track mindset! Who is that one person? The answer is, YOU!

But at the end, the YOU cannot be created, shaped, and made alive unless we arrange for a focused meeting with all the above men and many more. Prerequisites and steps to the glory! Meet them to find YOU! Once the YOU is found, keep conversing with that one person.

***They*** say, you will eventually get to a point in your conversations with YOU, where you may discover something perplexedly natural. That is, even this YOU does not matter as it exists not in reality.

What's remaining then? A point of no conversations, no logic, no queries, no substance, no vacuum, no birth, no loss, no god, no living, no thing, nothing!

Are we alive once we reach there and dealing with the usual daily activities and disputes anymore? Yes, we are, very much! That's what ***they*** say.

> Who are ***they***? Where *is* ***you***?
