---
layout: post
title: Ode to Science
---

#### Written on 6 Oct 2013

Time is education! Wherever we see, the revolutionary progressing world is under constant transformation. In such a world of continuous changes, it is nowhere possible in our biosphere to maintain the same state of affairs all the time. It is well understood that if energy behaves in and exhibits uniformity, the disorder in the universe increases. As the most intimate, almost indivisible siblings, science and technology began to rule human's day-to-day life. The global warming, an offspring of climate change has been challenging us with its growth at an unfathomable pace, probably faster than our world's development. However, at the same pace is our visions and actions in search of an alternative and promising method of overcoming the issue of global warming. It is no exaggeration that the same duo of science and technology alone can transform this hope into a reality. From a time when humankind was making all the possible attempts to understand nature, it is now royally walking on the red carpet - made of science and technology - towards a time when it can control nature. Time is ticking only towards more science and more technology, more and more!

Religions worship nature as a divine phenomenon. They also not only unpretentiously support the idea of understanding divine, but certainly also formulated several ways to achieve it. Accepting this as a hard earned responsibility, science contributes its sweat in the industry of understanding, and perhaps very soon in controlling the same nature, while it modestly persevering all its concentration in performing this task. Pioneers such as Ken Wilber, one of the modern spiritual integrationists, press on the fact that nature promises that science, technology and religion have been waiting to welcome us with all their humility and humbleness, while all three of them being very vital parts of nature. Chinese were the first to inquire and comprehend whether it was an egg or a chicken that came in existence first. From a time when human race were only inquiring, today, we are eagerly standing heads-up at the verge of answering many such questions. Time is ticking only towards science and technology for many divine (nature) answers!

It is undeniable that science and technology played their role majorly in a variety of aspects in the global status-quo, whose list cannot be complete here. From the time when we had no awareness of what life was, we have long journeyed and arrived at a junction where we can clearly look through almost all parts of our body; and find the minutest errors and realize the miniature life-machines in our body at nano-scale and beyond, which strongly influence our living system. It has always been a surprise to learn the history of Egyptian and Mexican pyramids which were built almost during the same time when there was no possibility of transport between the two countries. It seems impossible to believe that several thousand years ago, there were Indians and Chinese shuttling between their home and Europe. Today, we have made communication so much more unbelievable that it takes not more than a second to send a message from the North Pole to the South Pole. The conventional and contemporary airplanes fly at a height of about sixty thousand feet and at a speed of almost seven hundred kilometers per hour with a high level of precision. There was once a time when light was thought to be a wave. The it was a time when we surprised ourselves by understanding its particle nature. In the process of eliminating such conundrums about light's behavior, at last, we are now in a position to control the light and make it behave as we want it to behave, either a wave or a particle. (Does it seem like the diffraction of X-ray waves and laser photons contrasting with each other?). Certainly, time is ticking and taking all of us deep into science and technology!

While they seem evolved from an origin called natural philosophy, they also seem capable of uniting us all with the ultimate eternal wisdom. All it takes is the ticking time, which pleasantly depends on science and technology again.
