---
layout: 
title: Lessons while learning The Shell
comments: true
---

### While learning to write a shell script that does what `which` command does in Linux

```
 ______________
< I love Linux >
 --------------
        \   ^__^
         \  (oo)\_______
            (__)\       )\/\
                ||----w |
                ||     ||

```

I have been struggling to find a learning resource, both interesting as well as useful, for making my baby steps in shell scripting. Mostly, I ended finding either somebody who made a tutorial too serious to follow on, or someone who made it sound too informal.

Today, I came across this tutorial by **[Dr. Peter Chubb](http://www.gelato.unsw.edu.au/IA64wiki/PeterChubb)**, who begins by saying very affirmatively, 

> This is not a talk! This is a tutorial!!

That sounded like a promise to me and I went on. 

There were many lessons I learned in this tutorial, called as [Beginning with the Shell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sye3mu-EoTI). But one thing simply caught my total attention. During this particular exercise, Dr. Chubb shows you not only how to write a shell script, run it with proper arguments and evaluate the exit codes. In addition, he shows how to ask your shell to show you line by line when it reads and executes each line in your script. That ... is really helpful!

I am yet not sure if I can do this with any and every shell script, but I decided to put this on my blog instantly. In fact, when I wrote this post, I just finished only the abovementioned part in the video. I haven not watched it completely yet. I am sure there is more learning coming up.

***For now, here is what I learned so far. ***

## Make your own `which` command line utility

> And call your script file `wh`!


